abash - verb cause to be embarrassed; cause to feel self-conscious
abate - verb become less in amount or intensity; make less active or intense
aberrant - adj. markedly different from an accepted norm; noun one whose behavior departs substantially from the norm of a group
abject - adj. showing humiliation or submissiveness; of the most contemptible kind
abjure - verb formally reject or disavow a formerly held belief, usually under pressure
abnegate - verb deny or renounce; surrender
abrogate - verb revoke formally
abscond - verb run away; usually includes taking something or somebody along
abstemious - adj. sparing in consumption of especially food and drink; marked by temperance in indulgence
abstruse - adj. difficult to penetrate; incomprehensible to one of ordinary understanding or knowledge
abysmal - adj. so deep as to be unmeasurable; very great; limitless
accede - verb take on duties or office; to agree or express agreement
accolade - noun a tangible symbol signifying approval or distinction
accrete - verb grow or become attached by accretion; grow together (of plants and organs)
acerbic - adj. harsh or corrosive in tone; sour or bitter in taste
acumen - noun a tapering point; shrewdness shown by keen insight
adduce - verb advance evidence for
adroit - adj. quick or skillful or adept in action or thought; skillful (or showing skill) in adapting means to ends
adulation - noun servile flattery; exaggerated and hypocritical praise
adulterate - adj. mixed with impurities; verb corrupt, debase, or make impure by adding a foreign or inferior substance; often by replacing valuable ingredients with inferior ones
adumbrate - verb give to understand; describe roughly or briefly or give the main points or summary of
advent - noun arrival that has been awaited (especially of something momentous); the season including the four Sundays preceding Christmas
aesthetic - adj. concerning or characterized by an appreciation of beauty or good taste; aesthetically pleasing
affable - adj. diffusing warmth and friendliness
affectation - noun a deliberate pretense or exaggerated display
aggrandize - verb add details to
aggregate - adj. gathered or tending to gather into a mass or whole; formed of separate units in a cluster
aghast - adj. struck with fear, dread, or consternation
alacrity - noun liveliness and eagerness
alchemy - noun a pseudoscientific forerunner of chemistry in medieval times; the way two individuals relate to each other
allege - verb report or maintain
allusion - noun passing reference or indirect mention
amalgamate - adj. joined together into a whole; verb to bring or combine together or with something else
ambience - noun the atmosphere of an environment; a particular environment or surrounding influence
ambivalent - adj. uncertain or unable to decide about what course to follow
ameliorate - verb get better; to make better
amenable - adj. disposed or willing to comply; liable to answer to a higher authority
amorphous - adj. without real or apparent crystalline form; lacking the system or structure characteristic of living bodies
anachronism - noun an artifact that belongs to another time; a person who seems to be displaced in time; who belongs to another age
anathema - noun a formal ecclesiastical curse accompanied by excommunication; a detested person
ancillary - adj. furnishing added support
animosity - noun a feeling of ill will arousing active hostility
anodyne - adj. capable of relieving pain; noun a medicine used to relieve pain
anomaly - noun (astronomy) position of a planet as defined by its angular distance from its perihelion (as observed from the sun); a person who is unusual
antecedent - adj. preceding in time or order; noun the referent of an anaphor; a phrase or clause that is referred to by an anaphoric pronoun
antipathy - noun the object of a feeling of intense aversion; something to be avoided; a feeling of intense dislike
antithesis - noun the juxtaposition of contrasting words or ideas to give a feeling of balance; exact opposite
apex - noun the point on the celestial sphere toward which the sun and solar system appear to be moving relative to the fixed stars; the highest point (of something)
aphorism - noun a short pithy instructive saying
apocryphal - adj. being of questionable authenticity; of or belonging to the Apocrypha
apogee - noun apoapsis in Earth orbit; the point in its orbit where a satellite is at the greatest distance from the Earth; a final climactic stage
apostasy - noun the act of abandoning a party or cause; the state of having rejected your religious beliefs or your political party or a cause (often in favor of opposing beliefs or causes)
apotheosis - noun the elevation of a person (as to the status of a god); model of excellence or perfection of a kind; one having no equal
apposite - adj. being of striking appropriateness and pertinence
approbation - noun official recognition or approval; official approval
appropriate - adj. suitable for a particular person or place or condition etc; suitable and fitting
arbiter - noun someone chosen to judge and decide a disputed issue; someone with the power to settle matters at will
arcane - adj. requiring secret or mysterious knowledge
archaic - adj. little evolved from or characteristic of an earlier ancestral type; so extremely old as seeming to belong to an earlier period
archetype - noun an original model on which something is patterned
arduous - adj. difficult to accomplish; demanding considerable mental effort and skill; characterized by toilsome effort to the point of exhaustion; especially physical effort
arrant - adj. without qualification; used informally as (often pejorative) intensifiers
artless - adj. simple and natural; without cunning or deceit; (of persons) lacking art or knowledge
ascetic - adj. practicing great self-denial; pertaining to or characteristic of an ascetic or the practice of rigorous self-discipline
asseverate - verb state categorically
astringent - adj. tending to draw together or constrict soft organic tissue; sour or bitter in taste
astute - adj. marked by practical hardheaded intelligence
attrition - noun the act of rubbing together; wearing something down by friction; a wearing down to weaken or destroy
audacious - adj. disposed to venture or take risks; unrestrained by convention or propriety
augment - verb enlarge or increase; grow or intensify
augur - noun (ancient Rome) a religious official who interpreted omens to guide public policy; verb predict from an omen
auspicious - adj. auguring favorable circumstances and good luck
austere - adj. of a stern or strict bearing or demeanor; forbidding in aspect; severely simple
avarice - noun reprehensible acquisitiveness; insatiable desire for wealth (personified as one of the deadly sins); extreme greed for material wealth
aver - verb to declare or affirm solemnly and formally as true; report or maintain
avow - verb admit openly and bluntly; make no bones about; to declare or affirm solemnly and formally as true
axiomatic - adj. evident without proof or argument; of or relating to or derived from axioms
baleful - adj. threatening or foreshadowing evil or tragic developments; deadly or sinister
banal - adj. repeated too often; overfamiliar through overuse
beatify - verb declare (a dead person) to be blessed; the first step of achieving sainthood; make blessedly happy
belabor - verb attack verbally with harsh criticism; to work at or to absurd length
beleaguer - verb surround so as to force to give up; annoy persistently
belie - verb represent falsely; be in contradiction with
benign - adj. pleasant and beneficial in nature or influence; kindness of disposition or manner
bereave - verb deprive through death
bilious - adj. suffering from or suggesting a liver disorder or gastric distress; relating to or containing bile
blithe - adj. carefree and happy and lighthearted; lacking or showing a lack of due concern
bolster - noun a pillow that is often put across a bed underneath the regular pillows; verb support and strengthen
bombast - noun pompous or pretentious talk or writing
bucolic - adj. relating to shepherds or herdsmen or devoted to raising sheep or cattle; used of idealized country life
burgeon - verb grow and flourish
cacophony - noun loud confusing disagreeable sounds; a loud harsh or strident noise
callow - adj. young and inexperienced
calumny - noun an abusive attack on a person's character or good name; a false accusation of an offense or a malicious misrepresentation of someone's words or actions
canon - noun a collection of books accepted as holy scripture especially the books of the Bible recognized by any Christian church as genuine and inspired; a complete list of saints that have been recognized by the Roman Catholic Church
canonical - adj. conforming to orthodox or recognized rules; reduced to the simplest and most significant form possible without loss of generality
capricious - adj. determined by chance or impulse or whim rather than by necessity or reason; changeable
captious - adj. tending to find and call attention to faults
cardinal - adj. serving as an essential component; being or denoting a numerical quantity but not order
castigation - noun verbal punishment; a severe scolding
catalyst - noun something that causes an important event to happen; (chemistry) a substance that initiates or accelerates a chemical reaction without itself being affected
catholic - adj. free from provincial prejudices or attachments; of or relating to or supporting Catholicism
caustic - adj. of a substance, especially a strong acid; capable of destroying or eating away by chemical action; harsh or corrosive in tone
cavil - noun an evasion of the point of an argument by raising irrelevant distinctions or objections; verb raise trivial objections
celerity - noun a rate that is rapid
censure - noun harsh criticism or disapproval; the state of being excommunicated
chagrin - noun strong feelings of embarrassment; verb cause to feel shame; hurt the pride of
chary - adj. characterized by great cautious and wariness
chicanery - noun the use of tricks to deceive someone (usually to extract money from them)
choleric - adj. characterized by anger; quickly aroused to anger
circumspect - adj. heedful of potential consequences
coalesce - verb fuse or cause to grow together; mix together different elements
cogent - adj. powerfully persuasive
cognizant - adj. (sometimes followed by `of') having or showing knowledge or understanding or realization or perception
collusion - noun secret agreement; agreement on a secret plot
commensurate - adj. corresponding in size or degree or extent
complaisance - noun a disposition or tendency to yield to the will of others
connoisseur - noun an expert able to appreciate a field; especially in the fine arts
consecrate - adj. solemnly dedicated to or set apart for a high purpose; verb render holy by means of religious rites
consonant - adj. involving or characterized by harmony; in keeping
consummate - adj. having or revealing supreme mastery or skill; without qualification; used informally as (often pejorative) intensifiers
contentious - adj. involving or likely to cause controversy; inclined or showing an inclination to dispute or disagree, even to engage in law suits
contiguous - adj. very close or connected in space or time; having a common boundary or edge; touching
contretemps - noun an awkward clash
contrite - adj. feeling regret for a fault or offence; feeling or expressing pain or sorrow for sins or offenses
convention - noun the act of convening; something regarded as a normative example
convivial - adj. occupied with or fond of the pleasures of good company
convoluted - adj. rolled or coiled together; highly complex or intricate
copious - adj. large in number or quantity (especially of discourse); affording an abundant supply
corrigible - adj. capable of being corrected or set right
corroborate - verb support with evidence or authority or make more certain or confirm; establish or strengthen as with new evidence or facts
coterie - noun an exclusive circle of people with a common purpose
countenance - noun the appearance conveyed by a person's face; the human face (`kisser' and `smiler' and `mug' are informal terms for `face' and `phiz' is British)
covet - verb wish, long, or crave for (something, especially the property of another person)
credulous - adj. disposed to believe on little evidence; showing a lack of judgment or experience
cull - noun the person or thing that is rejected or set aside as inferior in quality; verb remove something that has been rejected
culpable - adj. deserving blame or censure as being wrong or evil or injurious
cursory - adj. hasty and without attention to detail; not thorough
cynicism - noun a cynical feeling of distrust
daunt - verb cause to lose courage
dearth - noun an insufficient quantity or number; an acute insufficiency
debacle - noun a sudden and violent collapse; flooding caused by a tumultuous breakup of ice in a river during the spring or summer
debauchery - noun a wild gathering involving excessive drinking and promiscuity
decorous - adj. characterized by propriety and dignity and good taste in manners and conduct; according with custom or propriety
decorum - noun propriety in manners and conduct
deleterious - adj. harmful to living things
deluge - noun the rising of a body of water and its overflowing onto normally dry land; a heavy rain
demur - noun (law) a formal objection to an opponent's pleadings; verb take exception to
deprecate - verb belittle; express strong disapproval of; deplore
derision - noun the act of deriding or treating with contempt; contemptuous laughter
descry - verb catch sight of
desiccate - adj. lacking vitality or spirit; lifeless; verb lose water or moisture
desuetude - noun a state of inactivity or disuse
desultory - adj. marked by lack of definite plan or regularity or purpose; jumping from one thing to another
diaphanous - adj. so thin as to transmit light
diatribe - noun thunderous verbal attack
didactic - adj. instructive (especially excessively)
diffident - adj. lacking self-confidence; showing modest reserve
dilapidated - adj. in deplorable condition
dilettante - adj. showing frivolous or superficial interest; amateurish; noun an amateur who engages in an activity without serious intentions and who pretends to have knowledge
disabuse - verb free somebody (from an erroneous belief)
discomfit - verb cause to lose one's composure
discordant - adj. not in agreement or harmony; lacking in harmony
discourse - noun extended verbal expression in speech or writing; an extended communication (often interactive) dealing with some particular topic
discretion - noun the trait of judging wisely and objectively; knowing how to avoid embarrassment or distress
disinterested - adj. unaffected by self-interest
disparage - verb express a negative opinion of
disparate - adj. including markedly dissimilar elements; fundamentally different or distinct in quality or kind
dissemble - verb behave unnaturally or affectedly; hide under a false appearance
diurnal - adj. having a daily cycle or occurring every day; belonging to or active during the day
divulge - verb make known to the public information that was previously known only to a few people or that was meant to be kept a secret
doggerel - noun a comic verse of irregular measure
dogmatic - adj. characterized by assertion of unproved or unprovable principles; relating to or involving dogma
ebullience - noun overflowing with eager enjoyment or approval
eccentric - adj. not having a common center; not concentric; conspicuously or grossly unconventional or unusual
eclectic - adj. selecting what seems best of various styles or ideas; noun someone who selects according to the eclectic method
effrontery - noun audacious (even arrogant) behavior that you have no right to
egregious - adj. conspicuously and outrageously bad or reprehensible
egress - noun the act of coming (or going) out; becoming apparent; (astronomy) the reappearance of a celestial body after an eclipse
elegy - noun a mournful poem; a lament for the dead
eloquent - adj. expressing yourself readily, clearly, effectively
elucidate - verb make free from confusion or ambiguity; make clear; make clear and (more) comprehensible
emollient - adj. having a softening or soothing effect especially to the skin; noun toiletry consisting of any of various substances in the form of a thick liquid that have a soothing and moisturizing effect when applied to the skin
empirical - adj. derived from experiment and observation rather than theory; relying on medical quackery
encomium - noun a formal expression of praise
endemic - adj. native to or confined to a certain region; of or relating to a disease (or anything resembling a disease) constantly present to greater or lesser extent in a particular locality
enervate - verb weaken mentally or morally; disturb the composure of
enigmatic - adj. resembling an oracle in obscurity of thought; not clear to the understanding
ennui - noun the feeling of being bored by something tedious
ephemeral - adj. lasting a very short time; noun anything short-lived, as an insect that lives only for a day in its winged form
epicure - noun a person devoted to refined sensuous enjoyment (especially good food and drink)
epitome - noun a brief abstract (as of an article or book); a standard or typical example
equanimity - noun steadiness of mind under stress
equivocate - verb be deliberately ambiguous or unclear in order to mislead or withhold information
erudite - adj. having or showing profound knowledge
eschew - verb avoid and stay away from deliberately; stay clear of
esoteric - adj. confined to and understandable by only an enlightened inner circle
espouse - verb take up the cause, ideology, practice, method, of someone and use it as one's own; choose and follow; as of theories, ideas, policies, strategies or plans
estimable - adj. deserving of respect or high regard; deserving of esteem and respect
eulogy - noun a formal expression of praise for someone who has died recently; a formal expression of praise
evanescent - adj. tending to vanish like vapor
evince - verb give expression to
exacerbate - verb exasperate or irritate; make worse
excoriate - verb express strong disapproval of; tear or wear off the skin or make sore by abrading
exculpate - verb pronounce not guilty of criminal charges
execrate - verb curse or declare to be evil or anathema or threaten with divine punishment; find repugnant
exegesis - noun an explanation or critical interpretation (especially of the Bible)
exhort - verb force or impel in an indicated direction; urge on or encourage especially by shouts
exigent - adj. requiring precise accuracy; demanding attention
exonerate - verb pronounce not guilty of criminal charges
expiate - verb make amends for
exposition - noun (music) the section of a movement (especially in sonata form) where the major musical themes first occur; an account that sets forth the meaning or intent of a writing or discourse
extemporaneous - adj. with little or no preparation or forethought
extol - verb praise, glorify, or honor
facetious - adj. cleverly amusing in tone
facile - adj. performing adroitly and without effort; arrived at without due care or effort; lacking depth
fallacy - noun a misconception resulting from incorrect reasoning
fatuous - adj. devoid of intelligence
fawn - noun young deer; a color or pigment varying around a light grey-brown color
fecund - adj. capable of producing offspring or vegetation; intellectually productive
fell - adj. (of persons or their actions) able or disposed to inflict pain or suffering; noun the act of felling something (as a tree)
fervent - adj. extremely hot; characterized by intense emotion
fetter - noun a shackle for the ankles or feet; verb restrain with fetters
flag - noun a conspicuously marked or shaped tail; emblem usually consisting of a rectangular piece of cloth of distinctive design
flippant - adj. showing inappropriate levity
flout - verb treat with contemptuous disregard; laugh at with contempt and derision
foment - verb bathe with warm water or medicated lotions; try to stir up public opinion
forbear - noun a person from whom you are descended; verb refrain from doing
fortuitous - adj. occurring by happy chance; having no cause or apparent cause
founder - noun a person who founds or establishes some institution; a worker who makes metal castings
fractious - adj. unpredictably difficult in operation; likely to be troublesome; stubbornly resistant to authority or control
fulminate - noun a salt or ester of fulminic acid; verb cause to explode violently and with loud noise
fulsome - adj. unpleasantly and excessively suave or ingratiating in manner or speech
furtive - adj. marked by quiet and caution and secrecy; taking pains to avoid being observed; secret and sly or sordid
gainsay - verb take exception to
gambit - noun a chess move early in the game in which the player sacrifices minor pieces in order to obtain an advantageous position; an opening remark intended to secure an advantage for the speaker
garrulous - adj. full of trivial conversation
genial - adj. of or relating to the chin or median part of the lower jaw; diffusing warmth and friendliness
germane - adj. having close kinship and appropriateness
glib - adj. artfully persuasive in speech; having only superficial plausibility
gratis - adj. costing nothing; adv. without payment
gratuitous - adj. without cause; unnecessary and unwarranted
gregarious - adj. instinctively or temperamentally seeking and enjoying the company of others; (of animals) tending to form a group with others of the same species
guile - noun the use of tricks to deceive someone (usually to extract money from them); the quality of being crafty
hackneyed - adj. repeated too often; overfamiliar through overuse
halcyon - adj. idyllically calm and peaceful; suggesting happy tranquillity; marked by peace and prosperity
harangue - noun a loud bombastic declamation expressed with strong emotion; verb deliver a harangue to; address forcefully
harbinger - noun an indication of the approach of something or someone; verb foreshadow or presage
hedonism - noun an ethical system that evaluates the pursuit of pleasure as the highest good; the pursuit of pleasure as a matter of ethical principle
hegemony - noun the dominance or leadership of one social group or nation over others
heretical - adj. characterized by departure from accepted beliefs or standards
hermetic - adj. completely sealed; completely airtight
hirsute - adj. having or covered with hair
hoary - adj. ancient; covered with fine whitish hairs or down
hubris - noun overbearing pride or presumption
husband - noun a married man; a woman's partner in marriage; verb use cautiously and frugally
hyperbole - noun extravagant exaggeration
iconoclast - noun someone who attacks cherished ideas or traditional institutions; a destroyer of images used in religious worship
idolatrous - adj. blindly or excessively devoted or adoring; relating to or practicing idolatry
idyllic - adj. excellent and delightful in all respects; suggestive of an idyll; charmingly simple and serene
ignominy - noun a state of dishonor
imbroglio - noun a very embarrassing misunderstanding; an intricate and confusing interpersonal or political situation
imminent - adj. close in time; about to occur
impassive - adj. having or revealing little emotion or sensibility; not easily aroused or excited; deliberately impassive in manner
impecunious - adj. not having enough money to pay for necessities
imperturbable - adj. not easily perturbed or excited or upset; marked by extreme calm and composure
impetuous - adj. marked by violent force; characterized by undue haste and lack of thought or deliberation
implacable - adj. incapable of being placated
importune - verb beg persistently and urgently
impromptu - adj. with little or no preparation or forethought; adv. without advance preparation
impunity - noun exemption from punishment or loss
incandescent - adj. emitting light as a result of being heated; characterized by ardent emotion or intensity or brilliance
inchoate - adj. only partly in existence; imperfectly formed
incipient - adj. only partly in existence; imperfectly formed
incorrigible - adj. impervious to correction by punishment
indefatigable - adj. showing sustained enthusiastic action with unflagging vitality
indifferent - adj. showing no care or concern in attitude or action; neither too great nor too little
indolent - adj. (of tumors e.g) slow to heal or develop and usually painless; disinclined to work or exertion
indulgent - adj. being favorably inclined; characterized by or given to yielding to the wishes of someone
ineluctable - adj. impossible to avoid or evade:"inescapable conclusion"
inept - adj. revealing lack of perceptiveness or judgment or finesse; generally incompetent and ineffectual
inert - adj. slow and apathetic; unable to move or resist motion
inexorable - adj. impervious to pleas, persuasion, requests, reason; not to be placated or appeased or moved by entreaty
infelicitous - adj. not appropriate in application; defective; marked by or producing unhappiness
ingenuous - adj. characterized by an inability to mask your feelings; not devious; lacking in sophistication or worldliness
inherent - adj. in the nature of something though not readily apparent; existing as an essential constituent or characteristic
inimical - adj. not friendly
innocuous - adj. not injurious to physical or mental health; not causing disapproval
insipid - adj. not pleasing to the sense of taste; lacking interest or significance
insouciance - noun the cheerful feeling you have when nothing is troubling you
intractable - adj. not tractable; difficult to manage or mold
intransigent - adj. impervious to pleas, persuasion, requests, reason
intrepid - adj. invulnerable to fear or intimidation
inundate - verb fill or cover completely, usually with water; fill quickly beyond capacity; as with a liquid
inured - adj. made tough by habitual exposure
inveigle - verb influence or urge by gentle urging, caressing, or flattering
inveterate - adj. having a habit of long standing
invidious - adj. containing or implying a slight or showing prejudice
irascible - adj. characterized by anger; quickly aroused to anger
itinerant - adj. working for a short time in different places; traveling from place to place to work
jejune - adj. lacking interest or significance; displaying or suggesting a lack of maturity
judicious - adj. marked by the exercise of good judgment or common sense in practical matters
lachrymose - adj. showing sorrow
laconic - adj. brief and to the point; effectively cut short
lament - noun a cry of sorrow and grief; a mournful poem; a lament for the dead
largess - noun a gift or money given (as for service or out of benevolence); usually given ostentatiously; liberality in bestowing gifts; extremely liberal and generous of spirit
lascivious - adj. driven by lust; preoccupied with or exhibiting lustful desires
lassitude - noun weakness characterized by a lack of vitality or energy; a feeling of lack of interest or energy
laud - verb praise, glorify, or honor
levee - noun an embankment that is built in order to prevent a river from overflowing; a pier that provides a landing place on a river
levity - noun a manner lacking seriousness; feeling an inappropriate lack of seriousness
licentious - adj. lacking moral discipline; especially sexually unrestrained
ligneous - adj. consisting of or containing lignin or xylem
limn - verb make a portrait of; trace the shape of
list - noun a database containing an ordered array of items (names or topics); the property possessed by a line or surface that departs from the vertical
loquacious - adj. full of trivial conversation
lubricious - adj. characterized by lust; having a smooth or slippery quality
lucid - adj. having a clear mind; (of language) transparently clear; easily understandable
lugubrious - adj. excessively mournful
luminous - adj. softly bright or radiant
magnanimity - noun liberality in bestowing gifts; extremely liberal and generous of spirit
magnate - noun a very wealthy or powerful businessman
malevolent - adj. wishing or appearing to wish evil to others; arising from intense ill will or hatred; having or exerting a malignant influence
malleable - adj. capable of being shaped or bent or drawn out; easily influenced
manifest - adj. clearly revealed to the mind or the senses or judgment; noun a customs document listing the contents put on a ship or plane
martial - adj. of or relating to the armed forces; (of persons) befitting a warrior
maudlin - adj. effusively or insincerely emotional
maverick - adj. independent in behavior or thought; noun an unbranded range animal (especially a stray calf); belongs to the first person who puts a brand on it
maxim - noun a saying that is widely accepted on its own merits; English inventor (born in the United States) who invented the Maxim gun that was used in World War I (1840-1916)
mellifluous - adj. pleasing to the ear
mendacity - noun the tendency to be untruthful
mendicant - adj. practicing beggary; noun a pauper who lives by begging
mercurial - adj. relating to or containing or caused by mercury; relating to or having characteristics (eloquence, shrewdness, swiftness, thievishness) attributed to the god Mercury
meticulous - adj. marked by extreme care in treatment of details; marked by precise accordance with details
minatory - adj. threatening or foreshadowing evil or tragic developments
misanthrope - noun someone who dislikes people in general
mitigate - verb make less severe or harsh; lessen or to try to lessen the seriousness or extent of
mollify - verb make less rigid or softer; make more temperate, acceptable, or suitable by adding something else; moderate
morose - adj. showing a brooding ill humor
motility - noun ability to move spontaneously and independently; a change of position that does not entail a change of location
mundane - adj. belonging to this earth or world; not ideal or heavenly; concerned with the world or worldly matters
nadir - noun the point below the observer that is directly opposite the zenith on the imaginary sphere against which celestial bodies appear to be projected; an extreme state of adversity; the lowest point of anything
nascent - adj. being born or beginning
nebulous - adj. lacking definition or definite content; lacking definite form or limits
neologism - noun the act of inventing a word or phrase; a newly invented word or phrase
neophyte - noun a plant that is found in an area where it had not been recorded previously; a new convert being taught the principles of Christianity by a catechist
nominal - adj. existing in name only; insignificantly small; a matter of form only (`tokenish' is informal)
nonplus - verb be a mystery or bewildering to
novel - adj. pleasantly new or different; original and of a kind not seen before
noxious - adj. injurious to physical or mental health
nugatory - adj. of no real value
obdurate - adj. showing unfeeling resistance to tender feelings; stubbornly persistent in wrongdoing
obfuscate - verb make obscure or unclear
oblique - adj. slanting or inclined in direction or course or position--neither parallel nor perpendicular nor right-angled; indirect in departing from the accepted or proper way; misleading
obsequious - adj. attentive in an ingratiating or servile manner; attempting to win favor from influential people by flattery
obstinate - adj. resistant to guidance or discipline; stubbornly persistent in wrongdoing
obstreperous - adj. boisterously and noisily aggressive; noisily and stubbornly defiant
obtuse - adj. lacking in insight or discernment; of an angle; between 90 and 180 degrees
obviate - verb do away with; prevent the occurrence of; prevent from happening
occlude - verb block passage through
odious - adj. unequivocally detestable
onerous - adj. not easily borne; wearing
opaque - adj. not clear; not transmitting or reflecting light or radiant energy; not clearly understood or expressed
opprobrium - noun a state of extreme dishonor; state of disgrace resulting from public abuse
oscillation - noun (physics) a regular periodic variation in value about a mean; the process of oscillating between states
ossify - verb become bony; cause to become hard and bony
ostentatious - adj. intended to attract notice and impress others; of a display that is tawdry or vulgar
otiose - adj. serving no useful purpose; having no excuse for being; disinclined to work or exertion
paean - noun (ancient Greece) a hymn of praise (especially one sung in ancient Greece to invoke or thank a deity); a formal expression of praise
palliate - verb provide physical relief, as from pain; lessen or to try to lessen the seriousness or extent of
panacea - noun hypothetical remedy for all ills or diseases; once sought by the alchemists; (Greek mythology) the goddess of healing; daughter of Aesculapius and sister of Hygeia
panegyric - adj. formally expressing praise; noun a formal expression of praise
paradigm - noun the generally accepted perspective of a particular discipline at a given time; systematic arrangement of all the inflected forms of a word
paradox - noun (logic) a statement that contradicts itself
parody - noun humorous or satirical mimicry; a composition that imitates somebody's style in a humorous way
parry - noun (fencing) blocking a lunge or deflecting it with a circular motion of the sword; a return punch (especially by a boxer)
parsimonious - adj. excessively unwilling to spend
partisan - adj. devoted to a cause or party; adhering or confined to a particular sect or denomination or party
partisan - adj. devoted to a cause or party; adhering or confined to a particular sect or denomination or party
patina - noun a fine coating of oxide on the surface of a metal
paucity - noun an insufficient quantity or number
pedagogy - noun the activities of educating or instructing; activities that impart knowledge or skill; the profession of a teacher
pedantic - adj. marked by a narrow focus on or display of learning especially its trivial aspects
pedestrian - adj. lacking wit or imagination; noun a person who travels by foot
pellucid - adj. (of language) transparently clear; easily understandable; transmitting light; able to be seen through with clarity
penurious - adj. excessively unwilling to spend; not having enough money to pay for necessities
penury - noun a state of extreme poverty or destitution
perennial - adj. recurring again and again; lasting three seasons or more
perfidy - noun betrayal of a trust; an act of deliberate betrayal
perfunctory - adj. hasty and without attention to detail; not thorough; as a formality only
peripatetic - adj. traveling especially on foot; of or relating to Aristotle or his philosophy
pernicious - adj. working or spreading in a hidden and usually injurious way; exceedingly harmful
perorate - verb deliver an oration in grandiloquent style; conclude a speech with a formal recapitulation
perspicacious - adj. acutely insightful and wise; mentally acute or penetratingly discerning
perturb - verb throw into great confusion or disorder; disturb in mind or make uneasy or cause to be worried or alarmed
peruse - verb examine or consider with attention and in detail
pervade - verb spread or diffuse through
pervasive - adj. spreading or spread throughout
phlegmatic - adj. showing little emotion
pine - noun a coniferous tree; straight-grained durable and often resinous white to yellowish timber of any of numerous trees of the genus Pinus
pious - adj. having or showing or expressing reverence for a deity; devoutly religious
piquant - adj. engagingly stimulating or provocative; having an agreeably pungent taste
pirate - noun a ship that is manned by pirates; someone who robs at sea or plunders the land from the sea without having a commission from any sovereign nation
pith - noun soft spongelike central cylinder of the stems of most flowering plants; the choicest or most essential or most vital part of some idea or experience
pithy - adj. concise and full of meaning
placate - verb cause to be more favorably inclined; gain the good will of
placid - adj. (of a body of water) free from disturbance by heavy waves; living without undue worry; taking life easy
plaintive - adj. expressing sorrow
plangent - adj. loud and resounding
platitude - noun a trite or obvious remark
plethora - noun extreme excess
pluck - noun the act of pulling and releasing a taut cord; the trait of showing courage and determination in spite of possible loss or injury
plumb - adj. exactly vertical; adv. exactly
plummet - noun the metal bob of a plumb line; verb drop sharply
polemical - adj. of or involving dispute or controversy
portent - noun a sign of something about to happen
pragmatic - adj. of or concerning the theory of pragmatism; concerned with practical matters
prattle - noun idle or foolish and irrelevant talk; verb speak (about unimportant matters) rapidly and incessantly
precipitate - adj. done with very great haste and without due deliberation; noun a precipitated solid substance in suspension or after settling or filtering
precipitate - adj. done with very great haste and without due deliberation; noun a precipitated solid substance in suspension or after settling or filtering
precipitous - adj. characterized by precipices; extremely steep
precursor - noun a person who goes before or announces the coming of another; a substance from which another substance is formed (especially by a metabolic reaction)
predilection - noun a predisposition in favor of something; a strong liking
preen - verb dress or groom with elaborate care; pride or congratulate (oneself) for an achievement
presage - noun a foreboding about what is about to happen; a sign of something about to happen
prescience - noun the power to foresee the future
presumptuous - adj. excessively forward
prevaricate - verb be deliberately ambiguous or unclear in order to mislead or withhold information
pristine - adj. immaculately clean and unused; completely free from dirt or contamination
privation - noun act of depriving someone of food or money or rights; a state of extreme poverty
prize - adj. of superior grade; noun something given for victory or superiority in a contest or competition or for winning a lottery
probity - noun complete and confirmed integrity; having strong moral principles
proclivity - noun a natural inclination
prodigal - adj. marked by rash extravagance; very generous
prodigious - adj. so great in size or force or extent as to elicit awe; far beyond what is usual in magnitude or degree
profligate - adj. unrestrained by convention or morality; recklessly wasteful
profuse - adj. produced or growing in extreme abundance
proliferate - verb cause to grow or increase rapidly; grow rapidly
prolific - adj. bearing in abundance especially offspring; intellectually productive
prolix - adj. tediously prolonged or tending to speak or write at great length
propensity - noun a disposition to behave in a certain way; a natural inclination
propinquity - noun the property of being close together
propitiate - verb make peace with
propitious - adj. presenting favorable circumstances; likely to result in or show signs or success
prosaic - adj. not challenging; dull and lacking excitement; lacking wit or imagination
provincial - adj. characteristic of the provinces or their people; of or associated with a province
prurient - adj. characterized by lust
puerile - adj. of or characteristic of a child; displaying or suggesting a lack of maturity
puissant - adj. powerful
pulchritude - noun physical beauty (especially of a woman)
pungent - adj. strong and sharp; "the pungent taste of radishes"; capable of wounding
pusillanimous - adj. lacking in courage and manly strength and resolution; contemptibly fearful
putative - adj. commonly put forth or accepted as true on inconclusive grounds
putrefy - verb become putrid; decay with an offensive smell
Definition not found for qualms. Please try http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/qualms for a definition.
quay - noun wharf usually built parallel to the shoreline
querulous - adj. habitually complaining
query - noun an instance of questioning; verb pose a question
queue - noun a braid of hair at the back of the head; (information processing) an ordered list of tasks to be performed or messages to be transmitted
queue - noun a braid of hair at the back of the head; (information processing) an ordered list of tasks to be performed or messages to be transmitted
quiescence - noun quiet and inactive restfulness; a state of quiet (but possibly temporary) inaction
quintessential - adj. representing the perfect example of a class or quality
quixotic - adj. not sensible about practical matters; unrealistic
quotidian - adj. found in the ordinary course of events
rampart - noun an embankment built around a space for defensive purposes
rancorous - adj. showing deep-seated resentment
rarefy - verb weaken the consistency of (a chemical substance); make more subtle or refined
recalcitrant - adj. marked by stubborn resistance to authority; stubbornly resistant to authority or control
recant - verb formally reject or disavow a formerly held belief, usually under pressure
recondite - adj. difficult to penetrate; incomprehensible to one of ordinary understanding or knowledge
redolent - adj. (used with `of' or `with') noticeably odorous; having a strong pleasant odor
redoubtable - adj. inspiring fear; having or worthy of pride
refulgent - adj. radiating or as if radiating light
refute - verb prove to be false or incorrect; overthrow by argument, evidence, or proof
relegate - verb assign to a class or kind; refer to another person for decision or judgment
remonstrate - verb argue in protest or opposition; present and urge reasons in opposition
remuneration - noun the act of paying for goods or services or to recompense for losses; something that remunerates
renaissance - noun the period of European history at the close of the Middle Ages and the rise of the modern world; a cultural rebirth from the 14th through the middle of the 17th centuries; the revival of learning and culture
renege - noun the mistake of not following suit when able to do so; verb fail to fulfill a promise or obligation
replete - adj. (followed by `with')deeply filled or permeated; filled to satisfaction with food or drink
reprobate - adj. marked by immorality; deviating from what is considered right or proper or good; noun a person without moral scruples
reprove - verb take to task
repudiate - verb refuse to acknowledge, ratify, or recognize as valid; reject as untrue, unfounded, or unjust
respite - noun a pause from doing something (as work); a pause for relaxation
reticent - adj. reluctant to draw attention to yourself; temperamentally disinclined to talk
reverent - adj. feeling or showing profound respect or veneration; showing great reverence for god
rhetoric - noun study of the technique and rules for using language effectively (especially in public speaking); using language effectively to please or persuade
ribald - adj. humorously vulgar; noun a ribald person; someone who uses vulgar and offensive language
sagacious - adj. skillful in statecraft or management; acutely insightful and wise
sagacity - noun the mental ability to understand and discriminate between relations; the trait of forming opinions by distinguishing and evaluating
sage - adj. of the grey-green color of sage leaves; having wisdom that comes with age and experience
salubrious - adj. favorable to health of mind or body; promoting health; healthful
salutary - adj. tending to promote physical well-being; beneficial to health
sanction - noun a mechanism of social control for enforcing a society's standards; the act of final authorization
sanguine - adj. confidently optimistic and cheerful; inclined to a healthy reddish color often associated with outdoor life
satire - noun witty language used to convey insults or scorn
saturnine - adj. bitter or scornful; showing a brooding ill humor
sedulous - adj. marked by care and persistent effort
sententious - adj. abounding in or given to pompous or aphoristic moralizing; concise and full of meaning
shard - noun a broken piece of a brittle artifact
sidereal - adj. (of divisions of time) determined by daily motion of the stars; of or relating to the stars or constellations
sinecure - noun an office that involves minimal duties; a benefice to which no spiritual or pastoral duties are attached
solicitous - adj. showing hovering attentiveness; full of anxiety and concern
solvent - adj. capable of meeting financial obligations; noun a liquid substance capable of dissolving other substances
soporific - adj. sleep inducing; inducing mental lethargy
sordid - adj. meanly avaricious and mercenary; foul and run-down and repulsive
sparse - adj. not dense
specious - adj. plausible but false; based on pretense; deceptively pleasing
spendthrift - adj. recklessly wasteful; noun someone who spends money prodigally
sporadic - adj. recurring in scattered and irregular or unpredictable instances
spurious - adj. intended to deceive; born out of wedlock
squalid - adj. foul and run-down and repulsive; morally degraded
squander - verb spend extravagantly; spend thoughtlessly; throw away
static - adj. showing little if any change; not active or moving
stentorian - adj. used of the voice
stoic - adj. seeming unaffected by pleasure or pain; impassive; pertaining to Stoicism or its followers
stupefy - verb make senseless or dizzy by or as if by a blow; be a mystery or bewildering to
stygian - adj. hellish; dark and dismal as of the rivers Acheron and Styx in Hades
stymie - noun a thwarting and distressing situation; a situation in golf where an opponent's ball blocks the line between your ball and the hole
subtle - adj. faint and difficult to analyze; able to make fine distinctions
succinct - adj. briefly giving the gist of something
succor - noun assistance in time of difficulty; verb help in a difficult situation
succor - noun assistance in time of difficulty; verb help in a difficult situation
superfluous - adj. more than is needed, desired, or required; serving no useful purpose; having no excuse for being
supine - adj. lying face upward; offering no resistance
supplant - verb take the place or move into the position of
surfeit - noun the state of being more than full; eating until excessively full
surreptitious - adj. conducted with or marked by hidden aims or methods; marked by quiet and caution and secrecy; taking pains to avoid being observed
sycophant - noun a person who tries to please someone in order to gain a personal advantage
synthesis - noun the combination of ideas into a complex whole; the process of producing a chemical compound (usually by the union of simpler chemical compounds)
tacit - adj. indicated by necessary connotation though not expressed directly
temerity - noun fearless daring
tenacity - noun persistent determination
tendentious - adj. having or marked by a strong tendency especially a controversial one
tenuous - adj. very thin in gauge or diameter; having thin consistency
terse - adj. brief and to the point; effectively cut short
tirade - noun a speech of violent denunciation
torpid - adj. slow and apathetic; in a condition of biological rest or suspended animation
torque - noun a twisting force
tortuous - adj. not straightforward; marked by repeated turns and bends
tout - noun someone who advertises for customers in an especially brazen way; someone who buys tickets to an event in order to resell them at a profit
transient - adj. of a mental act; causing effects outside the mind; lasting a very short time
trenchant - adj. clearly or sharply defined to the mind; characterized by or full of force and vigor
truculent - adj. defiantly aggressive
turbid - adj. (of especially liquids) clouded as with sediment
turpitude - noun a corrupt or depraved or degenerate act or practice
tyro - noun someone new to a field or activity
ubiquitous - adj. being present everywhere at once
unalloyed - adj. free from admixture
unctuous - adj. unpleasantly and excessively suave or ingratiating in manner or speech
unfeigned - adj. not pretended; sincerely felt or expressed
untenable - adj. (of theories etc) incapable of being defended or justified
urbane - adj. showing a high degree of refinement and the assurance that comes from wide social experience
usury - noun the act of lending money at an exorbitant rate of interest; an exorbitant or unlawful rate of interest
vacillate - verb move or sway in a rising and falling or wavelike pattern; be undecided about something; waver between conflicting positions or courses of action
vagary - noun an unexpected and inexplicable change in something (in a situation or a person's behavior, etc.)
variegated - adj. having a variety of colors
veracity - noun unwillingness to tell lies
vestige - noun an indication that something has been present
vexation - noun the act of troubling or annoying someone; something or someone that causes anxiety; a source of unhappiness
vigilant - adj. carefully observant or attentive; on the lookout for possible danger
vilify - verb spread negative information about
virulent - adj. infectious; having the ability to cause disease; harsh or corrosive in tone
viscous - adj. having the sticky properties of an adhesive; having a relatively high resistance to flow
vitiate - verb take away the legal force of or render ineffective; make imperfect
vituperate - verb spread negative information about
volatile - adj. tending to vary often or widely; evaporating readily at normal temperatures and pressures
voluble - adj. marked by a ready flow of speech
voracious - adj. devouring or craving food in great quantities; excessively greedy and grasping
wag - noun causing to move repeatedly from side to side; a witty amusing person who makes jokes
waver - noun the act of moving back and forth; someone who communicates by waving
wizened - adj. lean and wrinkled by shrinkage as from age or illness
zealous - adj. marked by active interest and enthusiasm
